# npm
### What is npm?
- npm stands for __Node Package Manager__
- It is the world's largest software registry. Open source developers from every continent use npm to share and borrow packages, and many organizations use npm to manage private development as well.

### npm consists of three distinct components:
1. The website
2. The Command Line Interface (CLI)
3. The registry

## 1. Website
the [npm website](https://www.npmjs.com/) is used to find packages.
- a "Node package" typically refers to a software package or module that can be installed and used with Node.js applications.

A Node package usually includes:

- __JavaScript Code:__ The primary content of a Node package is usually JavaScript code that provides specific functionality or features. This code can be used in Node.js applications.

- __Metadata:__ Each Node package contains a package.json file, which includes metadata about the package, such as its name, version, dependencies, and other configuration details. This metadata is crucial for npm to manage the package and its dependencies.

- __Dependencies:__ Node packages often depend on other packages to function correctly. The package.json file specifies these dependencies, and npm automatically installs them when you install the package.

## 2. CLI
The CLIS is run from a terminal and is how developers interact with npm

## 3. Registry
The registry is a large public database of JavaScript software and the meta-information surrounding it.

---
### What is the point of npm?
- The main goal use of npm is automated dependency and package management.
- This means that you can specify all of your project's dependencies inside your package.json file, then any time you (or anyone else) needs to get started with your project they can just run npm install and immediately have all of the dependencies installed.

## Getting Started with npm?
First step is to install the latest version of npm:
1. Open your command line
2. Run the following command:

        npm install -g npm

## Checking the Version on npm
To see if you already have Node.js and npm installed and check the installed version, run the following commands:

    node -v

    npm - v

## Creating A New npm Project
To create a new project, first set your directory using the command line:

        cd "path to your chosen folder destination goes here"

Next command will create the npm project:

        npm init

---
