# Creating a Node.js / Express.js DApp

## Node.js:

- Node.js is a JavaScript runtime. It allows you to run JavaScript code on your computer (server-side) instead of just in web browsers (client-side).
- It's event-driven and asynchronous, meaning it's good at handling multiple tasks simultaneously without waiting for each one to finish before moving on.

## Express.js:

- Express.js is a framework for building web applications with Node.js. Think of it as a set of tools and conventions that make it easier to create web applications.
- It simplifies common tasks like handling HTTP requests and defining routes (URL paths), making it faster and more straightforward to build web servers.

## Relationship:

- You use Node.js to run your JavaScript code on the server.
- Express.js is built on top of Node.js. It provides additional features and makes it easier to organise and structure your web application code.
- Many developers use Node.js and Express.js together because it's a powerful combination for building web servers and applications.
- In simpler terms, Node.js is the foundation that allows you to run JavaScript on your server, and Express.js is a tool that makes it easier to build web applications using Node.js. They work together to simplify the process of creating server-side applications with JavaScript.
  
## Creating an Express.js Dapp

1. Download Node.js for Windows.
2. Open VS Code.
3. Open a new terminal (`Ctrl+Shift+'`).
4. Install Express.js framework:
    a. Enter the following into the command prompt (CMD):  
    ```
    npm install -g express
    ```
    b. This installs express globally, meaning express can run across any folders.  
5. In CMD change the directory to the local GitHub repository folder: 
    ```
    cd "folder path"
    ```
6. Create a new express app:
    a. In CMD, enter: 
    ```
    npx express-generator --view=ejs "App Name"
    ```
7. Lastly, check to see if there are any updates/missing dependencies since we last installed:
    ```
    npm install
    ```

## Viewing the App as we Develop

1. In order to view the app, we must first run it using CMD: 
```
npm start
```
2. Check "App Name" > `bin` > `www` to find the port number.

The port number is shown here as Port: 5500:

```
var port = normalizePort(process.env.PORT || '5500');
```

1. Finally, type `http://localhost:3000/` in your browser search bar.  
   *Change depending on Port Number*