# Express.js - Getting Started  

Express.js is a framework for building web applications with Node.js. 
It is a set of tools and conventions that make it easier to create web applications.<br>
Express.js simplifies common tasks like handling HTTP requests and defining routes (URL paths), making it faster and more straightforward to build web servers.

## Relationship with Node.js:

- You use Node.js to run your JavaScript code on the server.
- Express.js is built on top of Node.js. It provides additional features and makes it easier to organise and structure your web application code.
- Many developers use Node.js and Express.js together because it's a powerful combination for building web servers and applications.
- In simpler terms, Node.js is the foundation that allows you to run JavaScript on your server, and Express.js is a tool that makes it easier to build web applications using Node.js. They work together to simplify the process of creating server-side applications with JavaScript.

## Installation
Open the command line interface:<br>

    npm install express

- The above command will allow you to install the express package wherever your command directory is set up i.e., a specific project folder.
- In order to use Express globally across all folders, use the following: <br>

        npm install -g express

## Creating a new Express App
In the command line:
- Step 1 - set the directory to the empty folder where you want create the new app:

        cd "path to destination folder goes here"
    -  This can be combined with Guide 01. How to Create a GitHub Repository

- Step 2 - Install an New Express App using the 'express' command (__**Obsolete Command__)

        express myApp
    
    - This command generates a directory called myApp with the basic files and folders needed for an Express.js application. However, note that as of Express version 4.x, the express command is no longer recommended for scaffolding applications, and the recommended approach is to use express-generator.

    -The next command is the __preferred method__

        npx express-generator --view=ejs "App Name"

    - This command, when run with npx, fetches the latest version of express-generator and uses it to scaffold a new Express.js application. It creates a directory named myapp with a more comprehensive application structure than what the simple express command provides.
<br>
    - This creates a basic directory structure and adds some essential files for an express application.
    - The generated files include an app.js or index.js file that serves as the main entry point for your application. This file contains the basic configuration for an Express.js server.
    - The generated project includes a routes directory with sample route files. These files define how different routes in your application should be handled.

- Step 3 - Install Dependencies
    
        npm install

    - A dependency here is a peice of software that needs to be installed in order to make the application run

- Step 4 - Start the Server

        npm start

    - When you start the server, it listens for incoming HTTP requests on a specified port (default is 3000)

---
_Note:_ An express.js app is a kind of subset of a node project. There is no need to use ``` npm init ``` as it will already by installed as part of the express package.

## Viewing the App as we Develop

1. In order to view the app, we must first run it using CMD: 
```
npm start
```
2. Check "App Name" > `bin` > `www` to find the port number.

The port number is shown here as Port: 5500:

```
var port = normalizePort(process.env.PORT || '5500');
```

1. Finally, type `http://localhost:3000/` in your browser search bar.  
   *Change depending on Port Number*