# ERC-20

### Definition
ERC-20 is a standard which allows for the implementation of a standard API for tokens within smart contracts. This standard provides basic functionality to transfer tokens, as well as allow tokens to be approved so they can be spent by another on-chain third party.

### Token Definition
Tokens in the ethereum ecosystem can represent any fungible tradable good: coins, loyalty points, gold certificates, IOUs, in game items, etc. Since all tokens implement some basic features in a standard way, this also means that your token will be instantly compatible with the ethereum wallet and any other client or contract that uses the same standards.

[Ethereum Foundation Reference](https://eips.ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-20)
---
## ERC-20 Construct

See [openZepplin Reference](https://docs.openzeppelin.com/contracts/5.x/api/token/erc20#IERC20) <br>
In order to be compliant with the ERC-20 standard, there are mandatory methods which must be included as well as optional.

_Note: Token Supply number is typically pre-defined for an ERC-20 smart contract i.ei., fixed number of token_

## Mandatory Methods
1. totalSupply()
2. balance()
3. transfer()
4. transferFrom()
5. approve()
6. allowance()

### <u>Method 1</u> - totalSupply()
A method that defines the total supply of your tokens; when this limit is reached, the smart contract will refuse to create new tokens.

    function totalSupply() public view retuns (uint256)

- Returns the total supply of the token.

### <u>Method 2</u> - balanceOf()
A method that returns the number of tokens a wallet address has.

    function balanceOf(address_owner) public view returns (uint256 balance)

- Returns the balance of the address owner.

### <u>Method 3</u> - transfer()
A method that takes a certain amount of tokens from the total supply and gives it to a user.

    function transfer(address _to, uint256 _value) public returns (bool success)

- Transfers ___value amount__ of tokens to address ___to__, and MUST fire the __Transfer__ event. The function SHOULD __throw__ if the message caller’s account balance does not have enough tokens to spend.

___Note:__ Transfers of 0 values MUST be treated as normal transfers and fire the Transfer event._

- Common use-case for his method is for the inital distribution of token from the contract owner to other wallet addresses.

### <u>Method 4</u> - transferFrom()
Another type of transfer method that is used to transfer tokens between users. <br>
This method is used to allow an authorised third party wallet to transfer tokens on behalf of the owner. <br>
This permmission is granted through the allow() method

    function transferFrom(address _from, address _to, uint256 _value) public returns (bool success)

- The transferFrom method is used for a withdraw workflow, allowing contracts to transfer tokens on your behalf.
- This can be used for example to allow a contract to transfer tokens on your behalf and/or to charge fees in sub-currencies. 
- The function SHOULD throw unless the _from account has deliberately authorized the sender of the message via some mechanism.

### <u>Method 5</u> - approve()
This method verifies whether a smart contract is allowed to allocate a certain amount of tokens to a user, considering the total supply.

    function approve(address _spender, uint256 _value) public returns (bool success)

- Allows _spender to withdraw from your account multiple times, up to the _value amount. If this function is called again it overwrites the current allowance with _value.

___Note:__ To prevent attack vectors, clients SHOULD make sure to create user interfaces in such a way that they set the allowance first to 0 before setting it to another value for the same spender. THOUGH The contract itself shouldn’t enforce it, to allow backwards compatibility with contracts deployed __before___

### <u>Method 6</u> - allowance()
Returns the amount which ___spender__ is still allowed to withdraw from ___owner__.

    function allowance(address _owner, address _spender) public view returns (uint256 remaining)

- The allowance method is used to check the amount of tokens that a ___spender__ is allowed to withdraw from the account of the ___owner__.
- This is used inconjuction with the __approve()__ and __transferFrom()__ methods.

## Optional Methods
1. name()
2. symbol()
3. decimals()

These methods are optional but increase the tokens usability

### <u>Opp. Method 1</u> - name()
A method that returns the name of the token

    function name() public view returns (string)

- This method can be used to improve usability, but interfaces and other contracts MUST NOT expect these values to be present.

### <u>Opp. Method 2</u> - symbol()
A method that returns the symbol of the token e.g, 'BTC'

    function symbol() public view returns (string)

- This method can be used to improve usability, but interfaces and other contracts MUST NOT expect these values to be present.

### <u>Opp. Method 3</u> - decimals()
Returns the number of decimals the token uses - e.g. 8, means to divide the token amount by 100000000 to get its user representation.

    function decimals() public view returns (uint8)

- This method can be used to improve usability, but interfaces and other contracts MUST NOT expect these values to be present.

---

## ECR-20 Token Template

``` solidity
// SPDX-License-Identifier: GPL-3.0
pragma solidity ^0.8.0;

contract contractName {
    // New contract called contractName.

    string public name = "tokenName";
    // declare public string variable "name" and assigns it the tokenName.

    string public symbol = "HBX";
    // This line defines a public string variable called "symbol" and assigns it the value "HBX".

    uint256 public totalSupply = 2000;
    // This line defines a public unsigned integer variable called "totalSupply" and assigns it the value 2000.

    mapping(address => uint256) public balanceOf;
    // This line defines a public mapping that associates the balance of each address with that address.

    constructor() {
        // This function is called when the contract is created.

        balanceOf[msg.sender] = totalSupply;
        // This line assigns the entire initial supply of tokens to the contract creator's address.
    }

    function transfer(address to, uint256 amount) public returns (bool) {
        // This function allows token holders to transfer tokens to another address.

        require(balanceOf[msg.sender] >= amount, "Insufficient balance");
        // This line checks that the sender has enough tokens to perform the transfer.

        balanceOf[msg.sender] -= amount;
        // This line deducts the transferred amount from the sender's balance.

        balanceOf[to] += amount;
        // This line adds the transferred amount to the recipient's balance.

        return true;
        // This line returns a boolean value indicating whether the transfer was successful.
    }
}
```